ECNG 3020 Project Proposal 2024/2025
Project Title	: EV Charging Using Renewable and the Grid
Project Proposer	: Robert Beharie and Lindon Falconer
Project Supervisor 	: Robert Beharie and Lindon Falconer
Project Category 	: Type IV: System Development and Design
Thematic Group 	: Power Systems, Computer Systems
Project Keywords	: Electrical Power Distribution, Power Electronics         
1.1 Background
The production of internal combustion-type vehicles is rapidly declining and will be the minority in the near future when compared to electric vehicles (EV). With the modern trend of creating communities which include residential high-rise buildings and townhouses, the need for charging electric vehicles in these communities will be of economic and significant importance. Connecting EV chargers to both renewable energy systems and the grid can reduce the cost to individuals and also reduce the dependency on fossil fuels. 
This project requires the student to design an electric vehicle charging system that takes energy from a solar photovoltaic (PV) system as the primary source and the electric grid as the secondary source.  The system should be designed to bill the customer at a different cost based on the energy source.  
1.2 Objectives
1. Research the different types of EV chargers that are available on the market.  Choose a suitable low-cost EV charger for the project. Design a Solar PV System that is capable of charging an EV vehicle using this charger.  The EV could be motor cars or trucks. Discuss with your supervisor to decide on the size of the EV.
a. The solar PV system should be designed by selecting the number of solar panels, charge controller, inverter, DC and AC disconnect, wires, sockets and batteries (the batteries are only used to supply energy when there is a dip in PV energy. If PV energy is insufficient, switch to the electric grid).
2. Derive the power that will be needed from the electric grid to operate the EV charger.  Determine the breaker size, wires and sockets needed to install the EV charging system.
3. Use ETAP or any other power systems application to simulate the charging process of an electric vehicle and the flow of energy from the solar PV system and or the electric grid.
4. Design a control and monitoring system that has the following features:
a. Can select between a Solar PV system and or the electric grid as the energy source for the EV charger. The PV system should be the primary source once it can supply the required energy.  The electric grid should be used if the PV cannot supply the energy.
b. The system should measure the energy sent to the EV charger and calculate the energy cost.  The rate for energy from the electric grid should be JM$50 per kWh and JM$10 per kWh from the PV system. At the end of charging, the system should generate the bill for the customer.
c.  The control and monitoring device should have a web interface that displays the following:
i. Energy source
ii. Voltage, Current, Energy
iii. Time charging
iv. Total cost 
v. Other relevant information
d. The total energy supplied, energy source (Grid or PV), time charging, total cost, date, and time should be logged into a database.
e. The web interface should allow viewing of energy generated and used over time (day, week or month)
1.3 Implementation and Methodology
The system should be designed using (1) an off-the-shelf EV Charger, (2) the components needed to implement the PV system and (3) an Embedded system that switches power between the PV system and the electric grid and generates the energy cost. 
Students should demonstrate a scaled-down version of the solar PV system. The system implemented for demonstration should be agreed on with the supervisor.
Summary of Requirements
1.3.1 Prerequisite Skills and Knowledge
The student should have or develop knowledge in solar PV system design, automatic transfer switch operation, embedded system design and web server interfacing.
1.3.2 General Hardware Requirements
Hardware required for the project includes components for the Solar PV system, Embedded system, and a web server.
1.3.3 General Software Requirements
Software required for the project includes Linux operation system, embedded system programming application, schematics and PCB design application.
